# hotspot-detection
 The project aims at detecting an effective and suitable area for establishing a store or business center to function successfully. This project was developed and documented by a team of 5 students.

The major factor that plays a vital role for a business is finding a best and profitable location. Business owners are proactive and will be ready to spend huge amount of money in locating a best location for their business. As it is one of the primary factor that needs to be considered to enhance business and generate better revenues, there has been an alarming rate of research undergone in this field. 

In the initial phase we identified various factors with respect to the location that would influence the business of a retail store. Some of the factors are population, economic condition, competitors, real estate value, available land area, availability of transportation facilities, etc. It was found that population, average income of family (household income), median household income and number of competitors to be some of the prime factors. Real data was extracted from US Census data, Geocommons.com, boutell.com and competitor’s official websites (e.g., walmart.com, target.com, costco.com, harristeeter.com) based on zip codes. A tailored clustering was performed based on user location preferences and distance between the data points (zip code centers). On the clustered data, a naïve weight based selection algorithm picks the best location using a measure called BPMeasure (Business Potential Measure) of various data points (zip codes). 

(Note: Our project is entitled to detect a suitable location in the state of North Carolina)
